But wait!
Before you write your first draft,
you should first learn
the format of the script.
This isn’t usually taught
in playwriting workshops.
I don't understand why
because this is important to me.
I just realized
that it’s not just the story,
the play itself, or the dialogue
that’s important,
but also how you present
your script as well.
Especially when you give it
to the director and actors.
There's a reason why
there's a format to the script.
It's not just because
it looks pleasant or professional,
well partly, yes.
There's a standard format
that scriptwriters follow.
There's a standard in screenwriting,
playwriting, and even in musicals.
So that when you submit your script,
even if they haven't read it yet,
the production team would think
that you're serious about your work.
‘Cause that happened to me.
I wrote a script
on a piece of notebook paper.
I wrote it like that.
I passed it like that.
I got scolded.
The script looked like
it got raked by chickens.
So the producer didn’t read it.
We have to prevent
those things from happening.
What's important is
it gets read and evaluated
because if you present it properly,
they'll present an opportunity
to you in no time.
Remember that you wrote
your script to be performed.
And because you wrote
it to be performed,
the one who needs
to understand this should be
the director, actors,
technical people, designers,
and the rest of the production team
have to understand your script.
They already have a language
so you better use that to avoid confusion.
Okay?
So now, right now!
Write your very first draft.
I'm going to wait for it!